COMP 3020 Assignment 2 Part 1
Group 53
Aaron Wojnowski, Lorenzo Gentile, Kieran Cairney

a) The five additional tasks that we have chosen are:

**Advanced Searching For Content**

The movie organizer is going to have a very large list of content, so it's important to be able to narrow down what search fields are criteria are important for a user. We plan to have a simple, organized search, which is also dynamic and understands that tags and attributes that users have chosen in their library. Using simple list, segment, and text controls, we plan to allow users to search their movie database. Proposed categories include, tags, genre, year range, actors, directors, age rating and movie rating. Our movie rating can be searched by global ratings, or narrowed down to ratings only by friends from social media for example.

**Tagging and Organizing Items Arbitrarily**

In studying our users, we learned that not every user organizes their movies the same way. Some have a simple watchlist, others have various watchlists (such as to watch with their girlfriend, by themselves, etc). To solve this issue and keep our movie organizer fluid, we opted to have arbitrary tagging instead of predefined categories. When the user launches the app, we'll prefill their tags with watchlist, buylist, faves, etc. From here, users can arbitrarily add new tags to their movies as they'd like, or add movies to existing tags. This allows our users to have full control over how they organize their content, while still making the software intuitive by prefilling tags, so they understand how the tagging system works.

**User Feedback & Social Media Integration**

When viewing each movie, we plan to fill data from the Internet and other users to allow for ratings and reviews. When using the movie organizer, users will be able to vote reviews as helpful, add their own reviews, rate movies and more. Reviews and ratings will contribute to the user feedback database which will be helpful to other users when searching for movies.

**Consuming Content**

Viewing movie information is great, but we want to actually allow users to watch their films! We want to have trailers when a user selects a movie, so they can get an idea of the movies they're interacting with. Additionally, we plan to add information about theatre times, rental locations, iTunes availability, Netflix availability and more. When a user has a movie in the organizer, they should be able to easily find out how to play the movie.

**Viewing Content in the Movie Organizer**

We want to make it really simple to view movies in the movie organizer. Scatterplots and lists aren't intuitive and don't provide a lot of information. Using rich visuals, well placed text, and more, we can have lists for the power user which are still visual appealing and easy to understand. For the more casual viewer, we plan to have a cover-flow style system which allows users to effortlessly scroll through movies one by one. The latter makes it super simple to pick movies to watch from their organizer, while the former makes editing great too.

**3 HTG's**
- (refer to drawn HTGs included)

b) Basic grids
- (refer to drawn grids included)

c) 3 Low Fidelity Storyboards
- (refer to drawn storyboard included)

d & e) User Profiles & Evaluation + Feedback

**User Profiles**

1) Tanis
- A 53 year old mom
- Has two children in University
- Enjoy's comedy and drama movies
- Is not very picky about looking into reviews before watching
- Likes to go to the movie theatre every other weekend with friends
- Watches Netflix occasionally, maybe twice a week
- Is not the most technical and prefers simple, easy to use interfaces that require minimal learning
- Likes recent films

Tanis' Review:
- It seems very straight forward and easy to navigate
- I like how there aren't too many buttons
- I would like to hide advanced features that I don't use, cause there is too much going on for me
- If I'm trying to narrow my search I usually pick genre first, so it would nice to have that near the top of the advanced search for me
- Items seemed to be spaced well
- I like how it doesn't take me a lot of clicks to get where I want

2) Rocky
- A 52 year old dad
- Has one child in University
- Enjoy's science fiction and action movies
- Likes to watch movies with his family
- Likes to watch movies that friends have suggested to him
- Prefers to watch movie on Netflix on weekends
- Really loves Steven Spielberg movies

Rocky's Review:
- It seems to be a very fast and efficient tool
- I tend to use Netflix to watch most movies, so it would be nice to filter movies that are available on Netflix
- I don't care so much about overall reviews, I prefer reviews from friends
- It would be nice to search for movies rated by my friends not everyone
- I like that I can search for multiple genres at once

3) Daniel
- A 20 year old male University student
- Will make up any excuse as to why he hates each movie he watches
- Very picky about movies, but favours action over anything else
- Loves to vent online about why every movie sucks through online message boards
- Usually torrents movies that he likes if they aren't on Netflix
- Very tech savvy

Daniel's Review:
- I like the wide range of search tools
- I like the user input for reviews so I can tell the world to not watch movies that I could make 10x better with a $20 camcorder and Windows Movie Maker
- I like how I can vote on reviews that I think are good or bad
- It would be nice to be able to organize reviews by rating, new or ratings by my friends for example

4) Aurelié
- A 21 year old female exchange student from France
- Fluent in French and knows basic to intermediate English
- Loves contemporary, romance and any classic movie
- Has a few close friends that she likes to watch movies with
- Quiet, and does not usually voice her opinion on movies
- Does not have a Netflix account, so she usually rents movies on iTunes or goes to the theatre occasionally

Aurelié's review:
- I like being able to search in a year range, because I like classics
- I wish it was easier to somehow see ratings and reviews by my friends easier
- I like how I'll be able to see if a movie can be rented on iTunes
- Sometimes I care about what languages the movie is offered in, so to search by that would be nice
- I like how it looks simple and easy to use

Overall what users want us to add:

- searching by availability in advanced search (netflix, itunes, etc.)
- searching by language availability of movies
- organize reviews in different ways such as top reviews, new, etc.
- update ratings and reviews to be filtered for global or just friends
- edit advanced allows moving and deleting fields for cleanliness and ease of access

f) Modify prototype based off of feedback
- (see attached documents)

**Notes**
- The home page is the default page
- The movie page is accessed through clicking on a poster image of a movie in the home page
- The profile page is accessed whenever a user clicks on the profile image in the upper right of any screen which contains it (Ex. home and movie pages)
- The editing advanced settings page is accessed when a user clicks on the pencil icon in the upper left area near advanced search of any screen which contains it (Ex. home and movie pages)

